README.md, before:

# BayesianOpt4dftu #

Determine the Hubbard U parameters in DFT+U using the Bayesian optimization approach.

## Prerequisites

1. Python 3.6 or higher
2. NumPy
3. Pandas
4. ASE (https://wiki.fysik.dtu.dk/ase)
5. pymatgen (https://pymatgen.org)
6. bayesian-optimization (https://github.com/fmfn/BayesianOptimization)
7. Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP) (https://www.vasp.at)
8. Vaspvis (https://github.com/DerekDardzinski/vaspvis)

## Configuration

Before running the program, configure the `input.json` file. It contains:

- **`vasp_env`**: Environment settings for VASP.

    - **`vasp_run_command`**:
        - Description: Running command for VASP executable.
        - Example: `"vasp_run_command": "mpirun -np 64 /path/to/vasp/executable"`

    - **`out_file_name`**:
        - Description: The name of the VASP output file.
        - Example: `"out_file_name": "slurm-vasp.out"`

    - **`vasp_pp_path`**:
        - Description: Path directing to the VASP pseudopotential. It should be the directory containing
          the `potpaw_PBE` folder.
        - Example: `"vasp_pp_path": "/path/to/pseudopotentials/"`

    - **`dry_run`**:
        - Description: Specifies if the run is a dry run (generate files only without actual computation) or not.
        - Example: `"dry_run": false`

    - **`dftu_only`**:
        - Description: Indicate if only DFT+U is performed.
        - Example: `"dftu_only": false"`
          
    - **`get_optimal_band`**:
        - Description: Indicate if an additional DFT+U using optimal U values is performed after Bayesian optimization.
        - Example: `"get_optimal_band": false"`


- **`bo`**: Settings specific to Bayesian Optimization.

    - **`which_u`**:
        - Description: Defines which element you'd like to optimize the U for.
        - Format: For a unary substance, it has to be `(1,)`. For
          compounds with over 2 elements, you can set each element to 0 or 1 to switch off/on the optimization for that
          element.
        - Example: For InAs, when optimizing for both In and As, it should be set as `"which_u": [1, 1]`.

    - **`br`**:
        - Description: Specifies the band range you'd like to include in your Δband.
        - Format: A list of two integers, defining the number of valence bands and conduction bands from the Fermi
          level.
        - Example: `"br": [5, 5]`.

    - **`kappa`**:
        - Description: Controls the exploration and exploitation when the acquisition function samples the next points.
          Exploitation 0 <--kappa --> 10 Exploration
        - Example: `"kappa": 5`.

    - **`alpha1`** and **`alpha2`**:
        - Description: Specifies the weight coefficients of Δgap and Δband respectively.
        - Examples: `"alpha1": 0.25` and `"alpha2": 0.75`.

    - **`threshold`**:
        - Description: Specifies the accuracy at which you'd like to stop the BO process. Note: A threshold of 0 will disable convergence assessment.
        - Example: `"threshold": 0.0001`.

    - **`urange`**:
        - Description: Defines the U parameter range for optimization. Note: Defining different U ranges for separate
          elements is unsupported.
        - Example: `"urange": [-10, 10]`.

    - **`import_kpath`**:
        - Description: Provides an external list of high-symmetry k-points if some special k coordinates aren't
          available in
          the ASE library.
        - Example: `"import_kpath": false`.

    - **`elements`**:
        - Description: Lists the elements in your system. This is used for plotting the BO results. Note: If it's a
          unary
          substance, it has to be [ele,].
        - Example: `"elements": ["In", "As"]`.

    - **`iteration`**:
        - Description: Sets the maximum steps that BO will perform.
        - Example: `"iteration": 50`.


- **`structure_info`** : Includes geometry information (such as lattice parameter, lattice vectors, atomic position,
  etc.) of the target materials.
  #### Example based on InAs:
    - **`lattice_param`** and **`cell`**: define the 2nd to 5th rows in your POSCAR.
        ```json
        {
            "lattice_param": 6.0584,
            "cell": [
                [
                    0.0,
                    0.5,
                    0.5
                ],
                [
                    0.5,
                    0.0,
                    0.5
                ],
                [
                    0.5,
                    0.5,
                    0.0
                ]
            ]
        }
        ```

    - **`atoms`**: Define the atomic positions of each atom in your system and the initial magnetic moment if there is
      any.

      With SOC:
        ```json
        {
            "atoms": [
                [
                    "In",
                    [
                        0,
                        0,
                        0
                    ],
                    [
                        0,
                        0,
                        1e-06
                    ]
                ],
                [
                    "As",
                    [
                        0.75,
                        0.75,
                        0.75
                    ],
                    [
                        0,
                        0,
                        1e-06
                    ]
                ]
            ]
        }
        ```

      Without SOC:

        ```json
        {
            "atoms": [
                [
                    "In",
                    [
                        0,
                        0,
                        0
                    ],
                    1e-06
                ],
                [
                    "As",
                    [
                        0.75,
                        0.75,
                        0.75
                    ],
                    1e-06
                ]
            ]
        }
        ```

      So in this case, there are two atoms in the primitive cell which are located at the position `(0,0,0)`
      and `(0.75, 0.75, 0.75)`. The second term under each atom defines the initial magnetic moment. If the spin-orbit
      coupling is not included in your calculation, it is just an integer while otherwise it is a (3,) array of each
      element defines the initial moment of corresponding direction. If the initial moment is 0, it has to be set to a
      small number to avoid conflict in the ASE.

- **`general_flags`**: Includes general flags required in the VASP calculation.
- **`scf`**: Flags required particularly in SCF calculation.
- **`band`**: Flags required particularly in band structure calculation.
- **`pbe`**: Flags required when using PBE as exchange-correlation functional.
- **`hse`**: Flags required when using HSE06 as exchange-correlation functional.
  
    Check ASE VASP calculator documentation for additional flag keys.

## Installation

```shell
git clone https://github.com/caizefeng/BayesianOpt4dftu.git
cd BayesOpt4dftu
pip install .
```

## Usage

For demonstration, consider the `/example/2d`:

### 1. Edit `input.json`

Change to the example directory:

```shell
cd example/2d
```

Update the `input.json` file with the appropriate `vasp_env` settings based on your system specifications and the location of your VASP binary.

### 2. Execute

Run the following command:

```shell
bo_dftu
```

### 3. Results

Upon reaching the threshold or maximum iterations, two output files are generated:

- `u_xx.txt`: Contains U parameters, band gap, and Δband for each step.
- `1D_xxx.png` or `2D_xxx.png`: Visual representation of the Gaussian process predicted mean and acquisition function.

**Example of BO plots**:

  <img src="https://github.com/maituoy/BayesianOpt4dftu/blob/master/example/1d/1D_kappa_5_a1_0.5_a2_0.5.png" width="600" height="400">

  <img src="https://github.com/maituoy/BayesianOpt4dftu/blob/master/example/2d/2D_kappa_5_a1_0.25_a2_0.75.png" width="800" height="270">

Optimal U values are deduced from the predicted mean space interpolation. Alternatively, use the `u.txt` file to select U values with the highest objective value.

## Citation

Please cite the following work if you use this code.

[1] M. Yu, S. Yang, C. Wu, N. Marom, Machine learning the Hubbard U parameter in DFT+ U using Bayesian optimization, npj
Computational Materials, 6(1):1–6, 2020.

Commit message:

Update README (add instructions for `baseline` and `delta_mag_weight`)

README.md, after:

# BayesianOpt4dftu #

Determine the Hubbard U parameters in DFT+U using the Bayesian optimization approach.

## Prerequisites

1. Python 3.6 or higher
2. NumPy
3. Pandas
4. ASE (https://wiki.fysik.dtu.dk/ase)
5. pymatgen (https://pymatgen.org)
6. bayesian-optimization (https://github.com/fmfn/BayesianOptimization)
7. Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP) (https://www.vasp.at)
8. Vaspvis (https://github.com/DerekDardzinski/vaspvis)

## Configuration

Before running the program, configure the `input.json` file. It contains:

- **`vasp_env`**: Environment settings for VASP.

    - **`vasp_run_command`**:
        - Description: Running command for VASP executable.
        - Example: `"vasp_run_command": "mpirun -np 64 /path/to/vasp/executable"`

    - **`out_file_name`**:
        - Description: The name of the VASP output file.
        - Example: `"out_file_name": "slurm-vasp.out"`

    - **`vasp_pp_path`**:
        - Description: Path directing to the VASP pseudopotential. It should be the directory containing
          the `potpaw_PBE` folder.
        - Example: `"vasp_pp_path": "/path/to/pseudopotentials/"`

    - **`dry_run`**:
        - Description: Specifies if the run is a dry run (generate files only without actual computation) or not.
        - Example: `"dry_run": false`

    - **`dftu_only`**:
        - Description: Indicates whether only DFT+U is performed. If set to true, completed calculations should be placed in the `<working dir>/<baseline>/band` directory.
        - Example: `"dftu_only": false`
          
    - **`get_optimal_band`**:
        - Description: Indicate if an additional DFT+U using optimal U values is performed after Bayesian optimization.
        - Example: `"get_optimal_band": false`


- **`bo`**: Settings specific to Bayesian Optimization.

    - **`baseline`**:
        - Description: Specifies the baseline calculation for Bayesian Optimization. Note: Currently, only "hse" and "gw" are supported. "gw" must be executed separately, meaning it is only supported when `"dftu_only": true`.
        - Example: `"baseline": "hse"`

    - **`which_u`**:
        - Description: Defines which element you'd like to optimize the U for.
        - Format: For a unary substance, it has to be `(1,)`. For
          compounds with over 2 elements, you can set each element to 0 or 1 to switch off/on the optimization for that
          element.
        - Example: For InAs, when optimizing for both In and As, it should be set as `"which_u": [1, 1]`

    - **`br`**:
        - Description: Specifies the band range you'd like to include in your Δband.
        - Format: A list of two integers, defining the number of valence bands and conduction bands from the Fermi
          level.
        - Example: `"br": [5, 5]`

    - **`kappa`**:
        - Description: Controls the exploration and exploitation when the acquisition function samples the next points.
          Exploitation 0 <--kappa --> 10 Exploration
        - Example: `"kappa": 5`

    - **`alpha1`** and **`alpha2`**:
        - Description: Specifies the weight coefficients of Δgap and Δband respectively.
        - Examples: `"alpha1": 0.25` and `"alpha2": 0.75`

    - **`delta_mag_weight`**:
        - Description: Specifies the weight coefficients of Δmagnetization. Note: A `delta_mag_weight` of 0 will exclude Δmagnetization from the loss function.
        - Example: `"delta_mag_weight": 0.1`

    - **`threshold`**:
        - Description: Specifies the accuracy at which you'd like to stop the BO process. Note: A `threshold` of 0 will disable convergence assessment.
        - Example: `"threshold": 0.0001`

    - **`urange`**:
        - Description: Defines the U parameter range for optimization. Note: Defining different U ranges for separate
          elements is unsupported.
        - Example: `"urange": [-10, 10]`

    - **`import_kpath`**:
        - Description: Provides an external list of high-symmetry k-points if some special k coordinates aren't
          available in
          the ASE library.
        - Example: `"import_kpath": false`

    - **`elements`**:
        - Description: Lists the elements in your system. This is used for plotting the BO results. Note: If it's a
          unary
          substance, it has to be [ele,].
        - Example: `"elements": ["In", "As"]`

    - **`iteration`**:
        - Description: Sets the maximum steps that BO will perform.
        - Example: `"iteration": 50`


- **`structure_info`** : Includes geometry information (such as lattice parameter, lattice vectors, atomic position,
  etc.) of the target materials.
  #### Example based on InAs:
    - **`lattice_param`** and **`cell`**: define the 2nd to 5th rows in your POSCAR.
        ```json
        {
            "lattice_param": 6.0584,
            "cell": [
                [
                    0.0,
                    0.5,
                    0.5
                ],
                [
                    0.5,
                    0.0,
                    0.5
                ],
                [
                    0.5,
                    0.5,
                    0.0
                ]
            ]
        }
        ```

    - **`atoms`**: Define the atomic positions of each atom in your system and the initial magnetic moment if there is
      any.

      With SOC:
        ```json
        {
            "atoms": [
                [
                    "In",
                    [
                        0,
                        0,
                        0
                    ],
                    [
                        0,
                        0,
                        1e-06
                    ]
                ],
                [
                    "As",
                    [
                        0.75,
                        0.75,
                        0.75
                    ],
                    [
                        0,
                        0,
                        1e-06
                    ]
                ]
            ]
        }
        ```

      Without SOC:

        ```json
        {
            "atoms": [
                [
                    "In",
                    [
                        0,
                        0,
                        0
                    ],
                    1e-06
                ],
                [
                    "As",
                    [
                        0.75,
                        0.75,
                        0.75
                    ],
                    1e-06
                ]
            ]
        }
        ```

      So in this case, there are two atoms in the primitive cell which are located at the position `(0,0,0)`
      and `(0.75, 0.75, 0.75)`. The second term under each atom defines the initial magnetic moment. If the spin-orbit
      coupling is not included in your calculation, it is just an integer while otherwise it is a (3,) array of each
      element defines the initial moment of corresponding direction. If the initial moment is 0, it has to be set to a
      small number to avoid conflict in the ASE.

- **`general_flags`**: Includes general flags required in the VASP calculation.
- **`scf`**: Flags required particularly in SCF calculation.
- **`band`**: Flags required particularly in band structure calculation.
- **`pbe`**: Flags required when using PBE as exchange-correlation functional.
- **`hse`**: Flags required when using HSE06 as exchange-correlation functional.
  
    Check ASE VASP calculator documentation for additional flag keys.

## Installation

```shell
git clone https://github.com/caizefeng/BayesianOpt4dftu.git
cd BayesOpt4dftu
pip install .
```

## Usage

For demonstration, consider the `/example/2d`:

### 1. Edit `input.json`

Change to the example directory:

```shell
cd example/2d
```

Update the `input.json` file with the appropriate `vasp_env` settings based on your system specifications and the location of your VASP binary.

### 2. Execute

Run the following command:

```shell
bo_dftu
```

### 3. Results

Upon reaching the threshold or maximum iterations, two output files are generated:

- `u_xx.txt`: Contains U parameters, band gap, and Δband for each step.
- `1D_xxx.png` or `2D_xxx.png`: Visual representation of the Gaussian process predicted mean and acquisition function.

**Example of BO plots**:

  <img src="https://github.com/maituoy/BayesianOpt4dftu/blob/master/example/1d/1D_kappa_5_a1_0.5_a2_0.5.png" width="600" height="400">

  <img src="https://github.com/maituoy/BayesianOpt4dftu/blob/master/example/2d/2D_kappa_5_a1_0.25_a2_0.75.png" width="800" height="270">

Optimal U values are deduced from the predicted mean space interpolation. Alternatively, use the `u.txt` file to select U values with the highest objective value.

## Citation

Please cite the following work if you use this code.

[1] M. Yu, S. Yang, C. Wu, N. Marom, Machine learning the Hubbard U parameter in DFT+ U using Bayesian optimization, npj
Computational Materials, 6(1):1–6, 2020.
